# Arbuscular-mycorrhizal-fungal-interactions
Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal interactions bridge the support of root-associated microbiota for slope multifunctionality in an erosion-prone ecosystem

Tianyi Qiu, Josep Peñuelas, Yinglong Chen, Jordi Sardans, Jialuo Yu, Zhiyuan Xu, Qingliang Cui, Ji Liu, Yongxing Cui, Shuling Zhao, Jing Chen, Yunqiang Wang, Linchuan Fang

The role of diverse soil microbiota in restoring erosion-induced degraded lands is well-recognized. Yet, the facilitative interactions among symbiotic arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi, rhizobia, and heterotrophic bacteria, which underpin multiple functions in eroded ecosystems, remain unclear. Here, we utilized quantitative microbiota profiling and ecological network analyses to explore the interplay between the diversity and biotic associations of root-associated microbiota and multifunctionality across an eroded slope of a Robinia pseudoacacia plantation on the Loess Plateau. We found explicit variations in slope multifunctionality across different slope positions, associated with shifts in limiting resources, including soil phosphorus (P) and moisture. To cope with P limitation, AM fungi were recruited by R. pseudoacacia, assuming pivotal roles as keystones and connectors within cross-kingdom networks. Furthermore, AM fungi facilitated the assembly and composition of bacterial and rhizobial communities, collectively driving slope multifunctionality. The symbiotic association among R. pseudoacacia, AM fungi, and rhizobia promoted slope multifunctionality through enhanced decomposition of recalcitrant compounds, improved P mineralization potential, and optimized microbial metabolism. Overall, our findings highlight the crucial role of AM fungal-centered microbiota associated with R. pseudoacacia in functional delivery within eroded landscapes, providing valuable insights for the sustainable restoration of degraded ecosystems in erosion-prone regions.
